From the Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.
Well, very pleasant. Good morning to you. Welcome back. Patrick Timpone and this is
OneRadioNetwork.com. Nice to be here with you. It is the 20th of June and on the third
Wednesday of each month, we have the honor and pleasure of talking with Dr. Ray Peat.
He's a PhD in biology from the University of Oregon, specialized in physiology. He taught
schools at University of Oregon, Urbana College, Montana State University, National College
of Naturopathic Medicine, Universidad in Veracruzanza in Mexico. He spent some time down there and
that's how he taught us, learned how to de-nextimalization of corn. He taught us about that. So he did
a lot of work with progesterone and he's with us, as I said, for the last third Wednesday,
third Monday, I'll get it, of each month. He's on the 800 line, that's the one we use.
So if you'd like to ask him a question, the way to do it is Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com.
Tells me before the show that they have a lot of water up there in the Northwest. Good
morning, Dr. Peat. Good morning. Yeah, almost every day now for
weeks and weeks. Is that right? Wow. Have you seen some of the droughty stuff going
on in Arizona and Texas? Boy, we are really going through it. Yeah, I guess our drought's
over here at least. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So the last time we talked a few times ago, you were
looking at moving more into more carbs, carbohydrates, you were talking about that. And I came across
some video, Dr. Peat, that somebody sent me about these things called oxalates, you know,
in the vegetables? So I'm listening to this lady, the PhD type, sound really... So she
got me all wound up about researching oxalates. And since I don't sleep, I thought, well,
maybe oxalates are causing... So I just cut out all my oxalates and there's nothing left
but meat. So I'm doing the opposite of you. So I, you know, I shouldn't do that. You have
a PhD in nutrition. I'm doing the opposite of what you're doing. So I don't know if I'm
on the right track here. I tend to avoid the leaves that are high oxalic just because the
effect on your teeth is so harsh. On your teeth? Oh, I didn't know the teeth. Oxalates
are these little small, they kind of razor blade kind of things that the plants create.
And where else do they go in the body? They strongly bind calcium and magnesium. They
bind calcium and magnesium. Yeah. And so it forms stones in the kidneys. But as it passes
through your mouth, it makes your teeth rough. So it's taking calcium right out of your enamel.
No kidding. I mean, and even the Mayo Clinic, I saw that people with kidney stones, they
recommend you don't eat spinach. Yeah. I mean... Rhubarb is similar. Rhubarb. So what are the
other... So the ones I were doing that were high Dr. Peat were almonds and spinach and chard.
I was really doing a lot of high oxalate foods. Yeah, they do taste good if they're cooked
until the magnesium and calcium somewhat react to protect your teeth. Now when you cook spinach,
you still have the oxalates, correct? Oh, yeah. If you do it with baking soda, that
to a certain extent antagonizes the destructive effect of oxalate. Baking soda? Really? Would
we ever want to take baking soda like ongoing or anything? Oh, yeah. Lots of people like
to cook their spinach and chard. It makes it softer very quickly and has a much different
taste. Bright green color. My goodness. Very fresh taste. And it actually disperses the
oxalates from the spinach? It gets in their way. It gets in their way. They don't react
so much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's curious. So what if you would take baking
soda just in water? Some people like to do that one or two times a day just because...
Any benefit, do you think? Oh, yeah. Athletes have demonstrated that taking a tablespoon
and a half a glass or so of water before an endurance race, it improves things for several
hours. Wow. That's a lot. A tablespoon. Yeah. A lot of people do one teaspoon at a time.
So how does it affect performance for athletes? It suppresses the formation of lactic acid
and so it postpones fatigue and actually lets you make more energy with less stress. And
what effects would it have then on the stomach and acid and all that? Baking soda. Oh, it
is quickly absorbed and almost as quickly the sodium starts acting as a diuretic and
so leaves the body, taking the alkaline part out of the body. There are enzymes in place
that when the pH rises because the sodium has left, the CO2 is converted from the bicarbonate
that you ate into the gas, which is soluble inside cells. And so very quickly after taking
some baking soda, the pH inside cells such as in your brain becomes more acidic. Acidic
or alkaline? No, more acidic, surprisingly. Everyone was assuming that it would be alkaline.
Yeah, but the alkali goes away in the urine very quickly and because of the enzymes all
through your body, when the pH drops because the sodium is gone, then instantly the bicarbonate
is turned into intracellular gas. The gas is soluble inside cells and so lowers the
pH inside cells. Inside the cells. And is that a good thing, Dr. Peat? Yeah. The slightly
acidic cell 6.8 pH is metabolically efficient. The inefficiency known as the Warburg effect
involves a rising pH in which lactic acid is formed and acidifies the whole region.
And so if you lower the pH, you suppress the formation of lactic acid, making your metabolism
much more efficient. That's why it increases endurance. Could that help thyroid if your
metabolism is up? Oh yeah, it interferes with what the thyroid is doing. Interesting. Yeah,
we had a Dr. Robert O. Young on, he's a pH guy, and he recommended taking baking soda
a couple of times a day just in general. He didn't say that the cells actually get more
acid though. He's always talking about how things are better alkaline, but it's interesting.
I wonder how that would affect someone that would have cancer cells running around. Would
that be good? Oh yeah, everyone pretty much has some cells that are very much like cancer
cells in that they are stuck in the condition of inefficiency in which they're producing
lactic acid rather than good energy. Oh, so that's what the cancer cells are doing. They're
creating lactic acid. Yeah, and in the process, they leave the cell where the acid has been
created, taking away acidity from the interior of the cell. When you form lactic acid in
a stressed cell, that means the interior of the cell is more alkaline than it should be,
and that blocks endurance metabolism, blocks oxidative metabolism, and it's efficient.
And so that inefficiency keeps the cell producing lactic acid in a vicious circle. And just
increasing your CO2 or your bicarbonate, you can break that vicious circle. Isn't that
interesting? Well, I've been looking at, you can get a CO2 tank that's made of aluminum
so it's not too heavy so you can carry it, and then one of those little suits that you
can put up. So I'm going to do it. I'll let you know how we do with that. It's kind of
fun. Oh yeah. And when you have been under stress, you can see your skin looking pale
and anemic. And within 15 or 20 minutes of being immersed in CO2, you can feel your skin.
Well, actually if you step into a big bag of it, you can feel it on your sensitive parts
immediately. In about 20 minutes, you can see your skin getting pink. Yeah. Yeah, they
have these little bags where I think they're used for ozone, and they're very inexpensive
and you can just put them up to your neck, you know, and just fill that puppy up, you
know. Oh, where do you get those? I don't know, but I'll send you the link. Yeah, I
found it somewhere. It looked pretty nice, looked pretty inexpensive, and it looked like
it was... I think they use it for ozone, Dr. Peat, is what they do. You know, for ozone.
Yeah, once years ago I got some big ones from a florist, but haven't had that source for
years. Yeah, yeah. Dr. Roy Peat is with us if you'd like to ask him a question. Patrick
at OneRadioNetwork.com, but I'll send you that link when I go to buy it here. I think
I'm going to do it this week. So, how have you been doing? You liking taking more carbs
and proteins? What was the purpose of that? What do you want to experiment with? Oh yeah,
it continues to support energy and seems to increase my sensitivity to thyroid. The impression
I've had is that everyone is running a little high on protein in the diet after they have
achieved adult size, that they don't need nearly so much protein, and increasing the
carbohydrate to a ratio of six or seven carbs to one protein gram can be very energizing.
Oh, what is it again? Seven to one ratio is often very, very good. Seven to one ratio.
So I guess back on the vegetables, if we're eating vegetables like squash and tomatoes
and things like that, they don't have these oxalates, right? None that I know of. So it's
mainly the chard and the spinach and what are some other ones? Rhubarb. But according
to some of the things I'm seeing, even baked potatoes, I mean, baked potatoes should be
a good food, shouldn't they? It should be what? It should be a good food, right? Oh,
it is, yeah. Well-cooked potatoes are almost a complete diet in itself. So even if people
say that they have high oxalates, who cares? Just a good food, right? Just eat them. Yeah,
the phosphate is probably as bad as the oxalate. The phosphate interferes with your calcium
and magnesium, too. Oh, the phosphate in meats? Or in some vegetables. In some vegetables,
too. Wow. Potatoes are a little high in phosphate. And then how about if we go over to these
pesky grains like rice and buckwheat and amaranth and things like that? Do these things have
any issues that we need to concern ourselves with or just enjoy them? Yeah, as a main staple
of your diet, they have far too much phosphate. So you have to take care to balance it with
magnesium and calcium. And is it better then if we can soak them and then sprout them as
well? Yeah, the very tasty, more primitive grains are the highest in phosphates and irritants.
The Chinese, with their polished white rice, had reasons. The stuff that's removed, the
bran and germ, cause the rice to become rancid and harmful. And so about 30 or 40,000 years
ago they developed a method of polishing it so that it would last a whole season. Oh,
that's why they did it. Wow. That's why they polished it up so it would last. Yeah, and
they had other foods and so there was no concern about a B vitamin deficiency if they were
generally well fed. I just got an email in from Gloria. While you're talking about oxalates,
please ask Dr. Peat about oxalates in green tea or black tea. Are these harmful? Do green
teas have oxalates? Yeah, but the quantity is usually not enough. Not enough to worry
about? Yeah, two or three cups of tea. Black pepper is supposedly really high. Is that
not a good thing, black pepper? It's a very popular spice. Oh, yeah, and the volume of
it. You could specialize in putting thick amounts of pepper on your food, but normally
it's a small amount. Yeah, just a little bit. And then beans? Beans are high in oxalates
too, right? Beans? Yeah, seeds in general. The phosphates are right up there with the
oxalates for interfering with your calcium. But orange juice is good. I got my orange
juice going this morning, Doc. Boy, you still drink a lot of orange juice? Yeah, if you
can find edible oranges, the quality of the whole food supply seems to have decreased
tremendously. Vividly moldy tasting oranges are being included in very expensive organic
juice. So you don't want to force yourself to drink orange juice that should have been
discarded. Yeah, it's not easy. I drove all the way to Austin this weekend just to get
some organic oranges. You can't find them. They're harder and harder to find. Well, I
tell you what, let's do this, Dr. Ray Peat. Let's take a little break and we'll do a couple
commercials and then we'll come back and then we'll take some emails, okay? Okay. Okay.
Come here, Judo. Come here, girl. Let me take your... Come here. I'm going to take her collar
off. She does a little scratching and she goes jingle jangle. Here, let me take this
off. There you go. Now you can scratch a little bit. We've been doing pretty good. I mean,
we got a little scratching going on, but nothing compared to normally. There's a product that
we've been using. We don't have a financial interest in it, but it's called Wonderside.
It's W-O-N-D-E-R-C-I-D-E. It's mainly cedar, I think. Cedar? Yeah, cedar trees. They have
a spray and then you also can have a spot on thing. Get this thing straight. You can
put it on your doggies.
I'm just having trouble with my earphone here. You can put it on your doggies back,
you know, on the spine there and it's totally clean, totally safe and it helps. So she's
been doing really good. Generally, the fleas can get pretty feisty here out in the country,
so we're scratching a little bit, but not too much. Shin Blossom is one of our sponsors.
Not Wonderside, but you can get Wonderside. If you'd like to go to their website, it really
is a special place. They have a blood purifier thing, which is very interesting. Arise the
male formula, bamboo chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is kind of fun. That alkalizes things a little
bit. Seaweeds, extra virgin olive oil. He has shaga, reishi, goji berries, schizandra.
The protein formulas, the heishiwu, very, very, very high quality. And that's mainly
for the kidneys. If you want to get Mr. Kidney working good, heishiwu. These are all on Shin
Blossom on OneRadioNetwork.com. We think you'll enjoy being there. They just have superb selection
and high quality ever. You've heard maybe some of the shows where he tells you how he
makes these things. He really goes to a great extent to do the very best he can and do them
all to Chinese medicine old formulas that are really, really good. So, check it out.
There's Shin Blossom on OneRadioNetwork.com. And then he's the same fellow that puts together
the blue shield, and that's the EMF protection
device that is very, very high quality. And it works on the cells in the body. So it helps
the little cells to just react in a more powerful, strong way to electromagnetic fields. It doesn't
block them or anything. It just works on the cells in the body. They have lots of research
and papers written on working with chickens and cows, and they have better production
and lower mortality when they are protected with the blue shield. A 10% off promo code
OneRadio on OneRadioNetwork.com. Same fellow, Brandon Amilani does both of these.
People are getting manic and taking all these stuff because they don't have sulfur in their
brain or something? That's correct. That's correct. And there's
reasons for that. Kid out there in the street buying illegal drugs, it's all caused from
that. Every bit of it. The manic depression, suicidal tendencies, it's all caused from
a lack of sulfur to the brain. Because glyphosate stops the uptake of sulfur from the body to
the brain. There's a lymph system that runs from the digestive tract to the brain directly,
and all they were finding is sulfur. It goes straight to the brain, because we're a sulfur
being, we have to have the sulfur to keep us sane. If you don't have sulfur going to
your brain, you become manic. If you look at all the drugs that they give people, they
put artificial sulfur in there. It's a molecule, artificial to trick the brain to think that
you've got sulfur in your bloodstream. We have a way to get sulfur into your bloodstream,
and you don't have to trick your brain. Just put it in there. With our pure organic sulfur,
you can click an order right on our website. Three prices, United States, Canada, worldwide.
It's the real deal. Makes little crystals in the glass. Living sulfur on OneRadioNetwork.com.
From the hill country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.
We're talking with Dr. Ray Peat. He's here on the third Wednesday, I get it, the first
Wednesday of every month, and he takes your questions, and his website is RayPeat.com.
His newsletter is Ray Peat's Newsletter, that's plural, RayPeat's Newsletter at gmail.com.
That's the email address, and then you can just kind of sign up for that.
I had one here I was going to start with, and I lost it. Oh, here it is. Here's a 45-year-old
male who wants to know if Dr. Peat thinks it's a good idea that I take a little bit
of that progesterone that he recommends from time to time.
Especially if you have symptoms of any kind of stress, especially sex-related stress,
failure of libido to be active when you need it, and sometimes just general overall well-being.
It starts around the age of 45 when that's likely to be noticeable, and very, very common
around the age of 50.
And here's another one right in line. Should progesterone be taken intermittently during
pregnancy, i.e. for a couple of weeks or less each month?
The function of pausing it for two weeks per month is that the estrogen tends to be at
risk of continual activity, and progesterone clears the estrogen out of your cells, inactivates
it, and causes it to be excreted. And if you keep taking the same amount every day, your
liver recognizes that it has risen every day, and so it starts regulating it down. That
means that it can lose effect if you continue to use it after two weeks. So if you just
stop taking it, your liver forgets about it for a while and will recognize it as a problem
and will recognize it as an anti-estrogen protective substance when it comes in again.
So this is only for pregnant women, not necessarily the rest of us, right?
This is for cycling women. It's an essential part of maintaining good cycling. And in pregnancy,
it's usually a failure to sustain progesterone production in relation to estrogen that causes
miscarriage problems or bleeding during pregnancy, and oxemia and so on.
What about women who have stopped menstruating kind of prematurely for whatever reason? Could
they use the progesterone to kind of get back cycling again?
In fertility clinics, they have found that women who are most likely to succeed in implanting
and becoming pregnant, when the process started, they had a ratio of progesterone to estrogen
between 50 and 100 to 1, much higher progesterone than estrogen. Around 10, they sometimes can
become pregnant, but they're right on the borderline then.
So progesterone to estrogen for the infertile ladies are very high to E, correct? Progesterone
to estrogen?
Yeah, the ratio at the beginning when you're trying to get pregnant should be between 50
and 100.
Oh, should be when you're trying to get pregnant. Okay. So that's when you would build up on
the progesterone at the beginning there.
Yeah, if you take a gigantic excess of progesterone, you can block conception. That requires more
like a thousand to one.
Yeah. Here's an email from Miles in Copenhagen, Denmark. Copenhagen. Any thoughts on a suitable
baby formula in case of insufficient or lacking breast milk? And then there's also going through
this whole shortage thing. So if you were going to make a baby formula, what would you
use?
Cow milk is the next best thing to human milk, and sometimes it's better because cow's milk
is built on nutrients that have passed through the fermenting rumen and cleaned up, detoxified
of lots of things such as unnecessary polyunsaturated fatty acids. The woman has no rumen, and so
everything in her diet tends to go into the formation of milk. And that means that if
the mother is not eating well, her milk can be worse than cow's milk.
Oh, because that's the whole... We don't do that. We go right to the blood, right?
Yeah. The cow's milk can be distorted by a bad food supply, but it's very, very resistant
because of the stabilizing effect of bacterial detoxification.
So moms supplementing, whether if there's an issue with breastfeeding or if they're
on baby formula and they can't get it, just cow's milk, organic cow's milk.
Yeah. When you dehydrate anything like milk, which is a very fragile material, all kinds
of things go wrong in the process of dehydrating. The fragile amino acids, the amino acids,
the tryptophan, for example, easily oxidizes into toxins, and vitamin B2 is one of the
earliest things to become toxic among the fats and vitamins. And then the polyunsaturated
fats deteriorate very, very fast in the toxins.
Would you add anything to the cow's milk, Dr. Peat, or just straight cow's milk? Would
you put anything else in there?
It's a little different. You can find suggested recipe changes, slight additions.
I can remember years ago in the 50s, lots of ladies who couldn't or after breastfeeding,
they would actually use, I think it was carnation, carnation milk and carol syrup. Remember carol
syrup?
Not that one. I don't remember.
Yeah, they had a formula. Ladies used to use that. I remember them doing that. I don't
know how I remember that.
Here is Tino. She says, "My eight-year-old daughter is very tall for her age. She's five
feet and is already showing signs of early puberty, very emotional, and first signs of
growing breasts at eight years old. Her blood work are normal except that her TSH has always
been between two and three and at one point was as high as five. Is there any ideas of
some things we could look at to delay puberty, prolong a healthy and happy childhood as long
as possible?"
Yeah. As thyroid becomes deficient, when it goes from three to five, that's very, very
important. The deficient thyroid causes the estrogen to rise and the estrogen guides the
growth pattern, increases the width of the hips and matures bones more quickly.
So the low thyroid increases estrogen and this could be really affecting her and she
could actually be showing signs of growing breasts at eight years old.
Yeah. That is fairly common to happen around the age of eight.
Really? What could be some foods that she could eat to help balance that or foods to
stay away from?
Make sure she's getting enough vitamin D and milk in her diet.
Milk and vitamin D?
Not overdoing any particular food. Getting a good range of fruits, vegetables. Once in
a while, seafood, regular egg, almond.
The soy, could soy be a problem if they're doing soy?
Soy contains a very strong estrogen. If a male is given soy protein at an early age,
his genitalia are feminized and if it continues beyond the very, very beginning of the formation,
it increases the risk of pituitary tumors and reproduction-related tumors.
We saw some studies years ago, Dr. Ray P. Doan, I think it was in the Philippines, after
in the 80s or 90s when this whole soy milk thing got huge and they started filling their
kids up with soy in the Philippines and had some real early puberty there. It was crazy.
No surprise, right?
Yeah, it affects both sexes. The worst effects are visible on male babies.
Let's see, here's an email. "I was diagnosed after a CT scan to have metastatic and carcinogenic
cancer tumors. All signs point to this, yet they don't know until I get a biopsy, which
I will not do. I started eating the kind of sugar you recommended. A very short time later,
I got a painful and bloated urinary tract infection. As a kid, I was prone to them and
now avoid eating things that have caused them in the past, one being too much sugar. Please
tell me what you think could possibly be going on and what I should do."
So we have a CT scan of metastatic and carcinogenic cancer tumors. What could be something this
person could do?
Where are the tumors?
It doesn't say.
The type of tumors is important.
To definitely shift your metabolism towards thyroid away from estrogen.
Towards increasing thyroid function.
Yeah, which will prevent the carcinogenic tendency of the estrogen. And the sugar metabolism
is regulated largely by the thyroid. So what you're eating isn't as important as, in this
case, how your thyroid is working.
So you want to get a thyroid test to make sure you have a TSH below .5, right?
Yeah, that's the safe population.
That's the ideal, is a really, really low TSH.
Yeah, when they find a population that is in that zone, they are free of cancer of the
thyroid gland.
And how about this person? Oh, I think they're just emailing in with the location because
they're listening. Liver and lower right abdomen, the location of these two little tumors.
Yeah, did they say what they're attached to?
Do you know any more? Email her, can you send in, she's listening, what they're attached
to, what these tumors are attached to.
Yeah, the intestine or exactly what are they.
If you have more information, email it in and Dr. Peat can maybe give you some more ideas
on what to do.
So what would be some no foods for this person with these tumors?
In general, it's important to not have a very extreme diet of a particular food, especially
soy and other estrogenic foods. Not to have an excess of protein or fat, keeping both
protein and fat down to maybe 10% of the calories.
And just not get too extreme in any direction.
Yeah, especially fat.
Especially fat, so the cancer does, fat's not good for cancer, for tumors?
No, the cancer thrives on fat. When a person stops eating sugar, for example, their body
starts breaking down protein and fat because the cancers send out hormones to take down
your muscles and other tissues to release fatty acids and amino acids into the blood.
Cancer has a reputation for eating glucose, but really as soon as you shut off the glucose
supply, then the damage really starts because you start destroying your own tissues, turning
it into food.
The waste and disease of cancer begins when you stop providing glucose to your body.
When you stop providing it.
She wrote back, "These tumors are attached to the small intestine or ascending colon."
That's all the information she has.
The information who has?
The lady with the tumors, small intestine or ascending colon, she believes they're attached
to.
Oh, well, it's important to, they might be able to surgically remove that little section
of the intestine.
Oh, you mean if they can do it right and not hurt anything?
Mm-hmm.
Can the sugar cause UTI infections, she writes back?
No, not really, because it increases your anti-inflammatory defensive system.
Well, we wish you well.
Let us know if we can help with something.
Patrick Timpani, along with Dr. Ray Peat, RayPeat.com, his newsletter is RayPeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
Could you please ask Dr. Peat, writes Rachel, for tips on reducing inflammation in the body
as it is supposed to be the root cause of most diseases?
Thank you for your shows.
So, just in general, inflammation?
Almost all the serious degenerative diseases are based on the chronic inflammation, a tendency
to abnormal coagulation.
And so, that puts aspirin in a very important position.
Carbon dioxide is another of our anti-inflammatory agents.
So, baking soda helps with anti-inflammation.
Well, I just kind of have an idea.
Do you think that carbon dioxide could help the lady with the tumors?
Oh, undoubtedly.
Undoubtedly? Really?
Yeah, there is an article fairly recently, a year or two, the title is "Is Baking Soda a Magic Bullet in Cancer?"
And that is what baking soda is to carbon dioxide, right?
Yeah, the same effects from both of them.
Oh, that's cool.
And you can get aluminum-free baking soda really easily these days.
Hi, Dr. Peat.
If someone suspects they may have too much acetylcholine production, what could they do to reduce this,
other than taking anti-chlorogenic substances?
Is there something clearly that can be done?
Yeah, when your body is failing to cope in some way with problems,
you go into the cholinergic, sort of helpless condition in which inflammation can go unregulated.
And so I think it's helpful to use the anti-cholinergic whenever you feel benefit from it.
Anti-histamines are generally the same as anti-cholinergic.
Also, if someone has severe milk protein allergies,
do you think that they can get enough calcium from well-cooked greens,
or should they also add eggshells or pearl powder calcium supplements, in your view?
I think powdered eggshells are a first aid in case you're doubtful whether you're going to have a problem with the leaves.
It's good to have some powdered eggshell on hand.
So you like those for calcium, powdered eggshells?
Yeah, and they should be prepared by dehydrating them and thoroughly separating the membrane
before you grind them up in a coffee grinder.
Oh, interesting. That's how people do it. They actually grind them up themselves.
Hi Dr. Peat, if a young woman was trying to improve her acne by taking Progest-E orally during the luteal phase with no skin improvement,
would you recommend them to apply some Progest-E directly onto the pimples for a more direct approach?
Directly to where?
Luteal, L-U-T-E-A-L, on her acne.
She said that she was trying to improve her acne by taking Progest-E orally during the luteal phase.
I'm not sure what that is. Luteal? Do you know? L-U-T-E-A-L?
Yeah, that's when the ovaries are producing.
I see, when the ovaries are producing their things.
Yeah, so it gives a boost.
When your progesterone isn't adequate during that phase, it's usually because your thyroid is low.
So, supplementing thyroid is often better than using progesterone.
Oh, I see. Right going to what could be the root cause of the issue, which would be an underactive thyroid.
Yeah.
Again, folks, I mentioned this before, we don't have a financial interest, but there's a place called Let's Get Checked that we used one time.
I think it was $60 and they send it to your house, you do the blood thing, and they'll give you your TSH.
Pretty quick. Send it in, boom.
Let's Get Checked is the name of the company.
Yeah, that sounds good too. Bypass the need of a doctor.
Yeah, yeah, and that's all you're interested in, the TSH anyway, right?
That's all you're... yeah. Cool.
Okay.
Got a few more minutes if you'd like to jump in with a question for Dr. Ray P. Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com.
Let me go to the ones we missed last month, because we always miss them.
I can find the right... I have so many. Oh, here it is. Okay.
So we have a lady here, Dr. Peat, who is 47, a recovering alcoholic, prophylactic smoke, P-R-O-P-H-A-O-L-I-C, not sure if it's smoker, oh, with a colostomy bag. God love you.
Now since she's been 24, heart and liver issues.
Can you give her some ideas on how she could get out of there? Hmm. Got a lot going on.
What was the substance?
Substance would... 47, recovering alcoholic, prophylactic smoker with a colostomy bag, and now she has heart and liver issues.
In a hospital.
And she wonders what to do?
Yeah, any ideas for heart and liver issues where she is right now?
Oh, it's hard to do anything well under hospital care, but she should question everything they propose.
Yeah, and they'll try to give you a lot of different things, won't they?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, very tough. See if you can get out of there.
Hi, Dr. Peat. A few months ago, my dog killed a squirrel, and I think it made him sick.
The next three days, he didn't eat and was having thick black sludge, diarrhea.
He also insisted on staying outside in 20 weather where he would hide in a bush.
Wow. Since then, he still mostly has diarrhea.
Once or twice a week, he won't eat for a whole day.
Do you have any ideas on what could be going on?
I know you're not a veterinarian, but if you had any ideas.
No. Giving him some bland but appetizing food would be my thought.
Cottage cheese, for example, would do no harm.
Yeah. She's asking here, and I can respond to this,
"Do you have any other recommendations other than feeding him other than meat and bones?"
Well, they're carnivores, in my opinion. I'm not a veterinarian, but they like meat.
And my dog, she'll skip eating sometimes two days in a row.
She's perfectly healthy. They know what they don't want to eat,
so I wouldn't worry about it if they want to skip meals. That's just one idea.
Some dogs sense when they need carbohydrates,
having something like a well-cooked vegetable, mashed potato, cottage cheese.
They'll eat it. If they need it, they'll eat it, right? If they like it.
And if they don't, they won't. They say, "No, I don't want that. Give me some more meat."
Even fruits sometimes.
Oh, would you please ask Dr. Peat if you can give milk or butter
as a remedy to safely eating foods with oxalates, more like potatoes?
Oh, they are slightly protective, just as a kind of a buffer.
Undercooked starch, for example, causes much less harm if taken with cream and butter.
Cream and butter. And also, would you ask them,
what's an alternative to such as almond milk or coconut milk for those of us
who are lactose intolerant or allergic to dairy?
Well, treating milk with lactase enzyme makes it sweeter
and to some extent reduces the effect on helping absorb minerals.
Lactose has a direct effect on improving mineral metabolism.
And so when you destroy that, you have less ability to handle magnesium and calcium.
Fair enough. This is from Martin in Montana for Dr. Ray Peat.
What does Dr. Peat think of cannabis? There's a big push for it in the U.S.
Isn't it very estrogenic? And what about short-term versus long-term use and occasional use of cannabis?
Short-term versus long-term?
Use of cannabis. What do you think about it?
Isn't it very estrogenic as well?
I think mildly so. They have a good lobby promoting its use,
but I've never seen a lot of good research supporting it.
Any other downsides that you know of other than psychological possibly?
No, but I've seen lots of annoying people who were exaggerated fans of it.
Yeah, there's no doubt about that.
Is it possible to grow back joints that have been damaged by osteoarthritis?
Oh, yeah, definitely. I've seen it happen. Probably the first one I saw supported by x-ray evidence was Art Plummer,
who was 65 and had x-rays of his knees that showed there was no whole cartilage layer left, just crumbles.
He said he was retirement age, so he was not going to have his knee joints replaced.
I gave him a bottle of Progest-E, which he, while working on the bathroom plumbing,
applied it all over his worst knee and went on working.
An hour later, I mentioned that he seemed to be having less trouble coming up the steps from his truck.
He said he thought he was, but the next morning he knocked on the door and said,
"I just wanted to show you this," and he ran down the steps and back up.
About a year later, he had said that he and his wife both needed aspirin to get through the night.
He said that night was their first time in years that they hadn't needed aspirin.
Several months later, I hadn't heard from him again. I phoned his office.
His wife answered, "I just wanted to find out about his knees." There was a long pause.
He said, "Oh, that's right. He did have that knee."
Then, I guess it was about ten years later, I kept seeing his truck around town.
I got him for another job and asked him how his knee had turned out.
He had totally forgotten that he ever had a knee problem.
And he just did Progest-E's for one time?
One week.
Wow. He smeared it all over his knee.
Yeah, the knee, which had no joint to speak of, just rubble.
Overnight, he could run up the stairs without pain.
That's amazing.
It was so complete that his wife had recovered.
She was a viola player and she had recovered from her hand arthritis
to the extent that she forgot either of them had had arthritis.
And she smeared the Progest-E's on her hands as well?
Yeah, they both used it at bedtime.
Those are just little bottles. Did he use the whole bottle on his knee?
What's that?
Those are just very small bottles. Did he use the whole bottle on his knee?
Yeah, the first day, during the hour, he applied half a bottle to that one leg
from thigh to ankle.
I think all the rest of it came from the rest of that one bottle.
Very interesting.
A friend of mine told me that you told a story one time about a dog and Progest-E's.
Do you recall what he might be talking about?
An animal?
Some kind of amazing recovery from a dog with Progest-E's?
What kind of recovery?
Some kind of amazing recovery from something giving a dog Progest-E's?
Sure, it works in dogs just like people.
Do you remember the story about the dog that you used it on?
I didn't understand the question.
Did you have an experience that was really interesting with a dog using Progest-E's?
Oh, yeah, many experiences with dogs. Liver cancer, arthritis, behavior, various human-like problems.
People were putting the Progest-E's topically on the dog?
And on their gums.
Hoppy.
What do you make of that?
What could be going on with that?
What's such a progesterone doing?
It's anti-inflammatory at all different levels.
And so if they have an excess of cortisol, it will protect against tissue breakdown at the same time as supporting tissue repair.
Wow. How would you know how much or how often to do?
Oh, it just evolves over. One of the first people was a university basketball player who got tendonitis.
It hurt so much, it impaired his playing. One application to his lower legs and he had no more tendonitis.
And if you were doing something with an animal who had some issues, you would just have to discern in your own intuition of how much to use and how often?
Yeah. People who know their dogs like a dog with terminal liver cancer.
Several people have said they thought they were in a terminal condition in agony from the cancer and they said they could tell by their behavior that progesterone made them comfortable.
Very interesting.
And they lived for many months.
Here's an email from Chris.
I'm confused about using baking soda for cancer.
I heard Dr. Peate mention in one of your shows that one could use one and a half ounces or 40 grams a day, but I'm not sure how to take it.
There are many suggestions on the net using maple syrup and it's not clear what is the best way to take it.
Also, this will change the body's pH, possibly interfering with other things such as food supplements.
Can you please ask him how to take it?
Maple syrup contains a lot of allergens. I wouldn't recommend using it without.
There are many different ways to increase your CO2 exposure. Breathing it by just re-breathing your own breath, taking it as the liquid baking soda solution teaspoon at a time,
or taking the right balance of thyroid hormone or using the drug acetosolamide to cause your body to retain more CO2.
There are many, many different ways to keep the lactic acid down and the CO2 up.
Okay. Here's one.
Here's a person who had flu symptoms back in November and I've not been able to properly taste or smell since. I've tried taking oregano oil, the blood detox from shed blossom, and oral methylene blue, but still can't seem to smell or taste like I used to.
I was a little concerned that it could be radiation damage or something else. I live in an area with 5G towers, smart meters. What do you think this could be?
There's nothing good that the 5G radiation does to your system. It can do lots of harm.
Yeah, they're tough, aren't they? They're very, very dangerous. Very dangerous.
Here's Anna. After my second COVID injection, wow, I've developed insomnia, muscle spams, and inflammation. The symptoms become even worse during stress and before my period.
Could this be an autoimmune condition connected with the histamine or estrogen?
Yes.
Wow.
The vaccine is ideal for producing autoimmune reactions. Their response is to deny that they cause anything harmful or just absurd and ignorant and insulting to the public.
Yeah. Yeah. It's just terrible.
Can someone apply Progest-East on pimples?
Some people do.
Here's one. What are Dr. Peat's thoughts on Dr. Young and being more alkaline via veganism?
That's just a traditional view of the alkaline, vegetable-heavy diet. It's right as far as the food that goes in is concerned, but just wrong in interpreting what happens inside the cells.
You eat lots of vegetables and get lots of alkaline minerals, and that allows you to convert the bicarbonate of the alkaline vegetable material into the acidic CO2 that protects the insides of cells.
Some of the applications may be okay. Perhaps the interpretation of what's going on may be incorrect in your opinion.
Yeah, they're getting lots of bicarbonates, alkaline things, in their diet, but when they eat them, they excrete the alkaline part and keep the bicarbonate, which automatically is turned into intracellular carbon dioxide, which is acidic.
Acidic. Hmm. Hmm. Interesting.
So, when you say the body gets rid of it, I've been doing some baking soda for experimenting the last week or so, and boy, I got my little pH tape just to test my pee, Doc. It's like nine. It's crazy.
Yeah, that's urine.
Yeah, that's just urine, right?
Yeah, that's what's not staying in your body.
But the good stuff, the carbon dioxide is.
Yeah.
Oh, good. All right. Here's an email. Is Tupelo honey a good source of fructose, and does fructose bypass the pancreas? Hmm.
To some extent, yeah. It is less of a trigger to insulin production.
Tupelo honey, or fructose is less of a...
Less stimulating to the insulin.
Yeah. And do you know from Tupelo honey?
Oh, any honey.
What's that?
It's in any honey. In apple juice, some other fruits, but apple juice and honey are reliable sources.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. You know, Dr. Fried, I want to mention, too, that since I've been doing more meat and less carbs and oxalates, my fasting blood sugar has been going lower and lower. It's like 70. Is that good?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, it can't get too low, right? Or can it?
It's when you acidify your tissues with the bicarbonates, you're shifting over to the efficient oxidative metabolism.
And so that deals with the blood sugar better.
Mm-hmm. Which is simply so efficient, you can be using it without having to have such a high level circulating.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, another thing I noticed I wanted to ask you about that may be useful to others who are here, when I was doing rice or pasta and even a piece of fish or something and eat, about an hour later, my energy would just go, "Pow!" You know, just down, right?
Just, I couldn't do much of anything. Couldn't work on my writing works, my writing projects. But with the meat and fat, it just seems to stay level. What is that saying? What's my body telling me there?
Efficiency allows you to find a middle ground where you don't, when you're under stress, you tend to convert other tissues like proteins into glucose to make sure you have some glucose.
But when you're more efficient in using your glucose, then that lowers the stress, and so you don't need to convert protein or sugar, and so you don't, and it stops destroying your tissue and starts not wasting fuel.
Not wasting fuel. So when you eat carbs and you lose energy, what is that saying? What's going on?
When you use carbs.
Yeah, so you eat carbs and then your energy goes down, like rice or pasta. What is that telling you?
That rice is a good stimulant to insulin, but if it doesn't come with inflammation, like if it's polished rice that is non-inflammatory, then that, even though it does stimulate your insulin,
you're able to use the insulin without any stress. And so when you're using the insulin properly, that's the absence of diabetes.
The absence of diabetes when you're using it properly.
Yeah.
Cool. A couple more, then we'll let you go.
How much does total phosphorus intake matter if the diet has a good calcium-phosphorus ratio? Is a low phosphorus diet preferable to a normal phosphorus diet if the calcium-phosphorus ratio is exactly the same in both cases?
There is a range of total intake where the ratio is the important thing rather than the total quantity.
But partly that depends on the efficient use of sugar. Sugar supports the retention effects of calcium.
And so if your diet is deficient in sugar and so activates various inflammatory inefficient processes, then that's not good.
Here's the last one for you, Catherine. Love your show. I'm 35 and my appendix removed at the age of nine after it ruptured from appendicitis.
I've read that the appendix is an immune organ and is involved in replenishing good gut bacteria, digesting fiber, and helping to produce fatty acids.
I'm curious what this means for my metabolic health and how to maximize my health from here on out.
Fats are the least beneficial part of the system. You're going to have a very low-fat diet that's very safe.
Is there such a thing as a fructose spike?
Not that I'm aware of.
Well, Dr. Peat, thanks for spending time with us this morning. I appreciate it. Thank you. Happy summer.
Summer solstice is the longest day of the year next year, tomorrow.
Okay.
You take care of yourself, sir. Thank you. We'll see you soon. Bye-bye.
Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Tempone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
I see that our little system to record videos somehow ran out of space.
So when you see the video of this, it's going to just cut off, but I don't know what to do.
I'll have to get to more geek and work on that, but the audio, you can finish off with it.
It just ran out a few minutes ago. It'll just cut off kind of weird.
I'm going to tell you.
Okay, kids, we're going to talk about eating meats and less plants tomorrow with a doctor.
He's in Australia. His name is Anthony Chaffey.
And we'll do that tomorrow.
And then Adam Bergstrom will be here on Wednesday.
Adam 2.0, the second or the third Wednesday of the month.
So thank you. I appreciate it. I love you all very much. Thanks for your support.
We will see you tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Take care. Bye-bye.
[music]
Broadcasting from the beautiful hill country in Texas, this is Juan, RadioNetwork.com.
(jazz music)